General Description:

This project is an implementation of an extended TFTP (Trivial File Transfer Protocol) server (JAVA) and client (C++). The communication between the server and the client(s) will be performed using a binary communication protocol, which will support the upload, download and lookup of files. Please read the entire document before starting.
The implementation of the server will be based on the Reactor and Thread-Per-Client (TPC) servers. The servers do not support bi-directional message passing. Any time the server receives a message from a client it can replay back to the client itself. But what if we want to send messages between clients, or braodcast an announcment to all the clients. The first part of the assignment will be to replace some of the current interfaces with new interfaces that will allow such a case. Note that this part changes the servers pattern and must not know the specific protocol it is running. The current server pattern also works that way (Generics and interfaces).
The extended TFTP Specification The TFTP (Trivial File Transfer Protocol) allows users to upload and download files from a given server. Our extended version will require a user to perform a passwordless server login as well as enable the server to communicate broadcast messages to all users and support for directory listings. It is a binary protocol (non-text-base). Binary protocols are very efficient when it comes to reducing the bandwidth used. The commands are defined by an opcode that describes the incoming command. For each command, a different length of data needs to be read according to it’s specifications. In the following sections we will define the specifications of the commands supported by the extended TFTP.
The original TFTP protocol is based on UDP. Since our servers are TCP based, we altered the original protocol.
